The comings and goings of neurologists, therapists, and linguists entering my family’s home are some of the most enduring memories of my childhood. I saw firsthand the struggles my sister had to go through due to my sister cerebral palsy, which rendered mundane tasks such as showering and speaking nearly impossible. Despite the obstacles my sister faced, my sister challenged herself with endeavors nobody thought possible for my sister, including pursuing a higher educational degree. Witnessing my sister’s journey sparked my fascination with the brain’s incredible plasticity and its power to transform and rewire, ultimately inspiring me to focus my education in the fields of neural systems and computation. Prior to my transformative undergraduate experience, I saw my sister’s experience as a perfect illustration of the dichotomy between brains and computers. At the time, the two entities couldn’t have seemed any more different: while brains are able to learn and grow, I saw computers as static computing machines incapable of such refinement. My parochial belief even extrapolated to their respective fields of study, wherein the neuroscience field seemed to have the energy, promise and mystery that computer science didn’t. Thus, it should come as no surprise that I applied to the University of Washington with the aim of studying Neurobiology. My notion of this false disparity was thankfully changed the Summer before my Freshman year, when I interned at the Center for Sensorimotor Neural Engineering (CSNE). Over the course of the summer, I got to learn about some of the Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) projects funded by the center. I was captivated as much as I was perplexed; how could a computer possibly account for the diversity, complexity and transient nature of the human brain? How could two entities so different interact with each other? I quickly learned that recent advancements in machine learning allowed for computers to not only encode brain signals into intention, but also adapt as the brain itself changes. My first introduction to machine learning was edifying, and I was determined to learn more about how lifeless silicon chips could possibly be designed to exhibit the attributes of intelligence and adaptability I eventually hoped to understand in the brain. Inspired, I sought out a BCI lab at the University of Washington and a University of Washington Institute for Neural Engineering Fellowship, which I am grateful to have received. In the GRID lab, I implemented my first machine learning programs aimed at decoding hand movement intention from Electrocorticography(ECoG) signals, with the goal of improving efforts to use BCIs to control prosthetic hands. I am currently investigating the use of machine learning models in detecting human epileptic cortex from non-seizure ECoG data for clinical purposes, in collaboration with neurosurgeon Dr. Ojemann. I plan to publish my research before the end of my undergraduate career. Enlightened to an area of research I never thought existed, an area where my knowledge and understanding of neuronal systems could be used in synergy with the power and versatility of computers, I went on to pursue a summer research experience at the Allen Institute for Brain Science. Over the summer, I independently conceptualized and developed an Artificial Intelligence (AI) model for identifying and categorizing mouse behavior from series of videos. The high performance of my model and the positive feedback I received from Allen Institute internship galvanized my passion for computational systems. Indeed, I pined for and received an NIH grant to continue my work at the Allen Institute, where I am currently working on developing a computational model for understanding the relationship between optically-imaged neuronal activity and corresponding mouse behavior. I feel profoundly lucky to have had such incredible educational and research opportunities, as they have opened my eyes to the growing synergy between the fields of neuroscience, neurotechnology and computer science. As a result, I have pushed myself to take a diverse set of advanced courses ranging from computational neuroscience to computer science, and even entrepreneurship, on top of my Neurobiology courses and four years of research work. In addition to my academic agenda, I have immersed myself in personally enriching activities, including fundraising over 600,000 dollars for one of the scholarships I am thankful to receive through two public speaking events, applying for and receiving an innovation grant for an idea I had for a rehabilitation sensor, and starting an Arabic Student Association on campus to promote cultural understanding. The challenges of advancing, studying, and understanding the capabilities of computational and neuronal systems, both artificial and biological, are at the crux my educational and professional interests, and I can think of no opportunity that would better serve my future goals and aspirations than your graduate research and education program. With my experiences at the UW Labs and the Allen Institute, I am confident I can bring a diverse and contemporary skillset to your program, and make the most of the profound resources and knowledge that it has to offer.